DOC-1602 hw/sw req cleanup (#182)
tigergraph/server-docs: modules/installation/pages/hw-and-sw-requirements.adoc

| 80.0+
| 10+
|===

> Other brower-based products, such as TigerGraph Insights, have their own browser requirements. See their corresponding documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other browser-based products, such as TigerGraph Insights, have their own browser requirements. See their corresponding documentation.
```

[#_hardware_recommendations]
== Hardware Recommendations
Choosing the right hardware to host your TigerGraph system is crucial for the right balance of cost and performance.
This page provides some general guidelines for hardware selection based on simple hypothetical assumptions, but your actual hardware requirements will vary based on your data size, workload, and performance requirements.

> The sizing recommendations below apply to each server node. If you have more than a several hundred GBs of data, you should consider deploying a cluster of multiple nodes, to distribute your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sizing recommendations below apply to each server node. If you have more than several hundred gigabytes of data, you should consider deploying a cluster of multiple nodes, to distribute your data.
```

NOTE: Consult a TigerGraph solution architects for an estimate of memory and storage needs.

=== Personal Use
Example profile: A single user on a personal computer (desktop or laptop), who is learning to use the software and to write applications.
|===
| Component | Specification 

| CPU
| 4 cores (≥ 2.10GHz)

| RAM
| 8 GB

| Storage
| ≥ 50 GB (SSD)

| Network
| 1 Gigabit Ethernet adapter
|===

=== Development, UAT, or SIT System
|===
| Component | Specification 

| CPU
| ≥ 16 cores (≥ 3.00GHz)

| RAM
| ≥ 32 GB

| Storage
| ≥ 300 GB (SSD)

| Network
| 1 Gigabit Ethernet adapter
|===

=== Production System
NOTE: Production systems should consider having replica clusters for redundancy and availability.
|===
| Component | Specification 

| CPU
| ≥ 32 cores (≥ 3.40GHz)

| RAM
| ≥ 64 GB

| Storage
| ≥ 500 GB (SSD)

| Network
| 10 Gigabit Ethernet adapter
|===

=== Additional Considerations

> This section descriptions considerations beyond sizing for the CPU, memory, and storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes considerations beyond sizing for the CPU, memory, and storage.
```

CPU clock speeds are not directly comparable across different processor designs, but within the same processor family, faster is better. We highly recommend using a *speed of 3.00GHz or higher*.

Below is an example of a production hardware configuation.
```
Architecture:        x86_64
CPU op-mode(s):      32-bit, 64-bit
Byte Order:          Little Endian
CPU(s):              24
On-line CPU(s) list: 0-23
Thread(s) per core:  1
Core(s) per socket:  1
Socket(s):           24
NUMA node(s):        1
Vendor ID:           GenuineIntel
CPU family:          6
Model:               85
Model name:          Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6248R CPU @ 3.00GHz
Stepping:            7
CPU MHz:             2992.969
```

==== RAM (Memory)

RAM is needed both to _store_ a working copy of our data and to do _computational_ work. TigerGraph is a hybrid in-memory database, meaning that in order to achieve maximum performance, it will attempt to load a copy of your entire working graph into RAM.
The RAM size is based on multiple factors:

* Type of workload (e.g., OLAP/OLTP queries, intensive CRUD operation....)
* Query SLAs
* Dataset partitioning (number of partitions in your TigerGraph cluster)

> RAM is not only size but also type. DDR4 is recommended because it gives you significantly faster data transfer rates, better power efficiency, and better data granularity than DDR3.

Reviewer: This page will slowly become outdated - DDR5 has been out now for more than a year. Suggest simply saying something along the lines of "the faster the data transfer speed of the RAM, the better." This may not even be necessary as the user probably knows that speed is good.

Author: I thought about that. It will probably be a few years before DDR5 is considered mainstream instead of premium. I might prefer to say "DDR4 or faster".

==== Disk

As stated in the <<_hardware_requirements>> section, solid state drive (SSD) storage is *mandatory* for TigerGraph.

> The longer data access times of spinning optical disks (HDD) can cause several issues, such as the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The longer data access times of spinning hard disks (HDD) can cause several issues, such as the following:
```

* Timeouts between internal components of TigerGraph
* Issues when making a backup of a TigerGraph data
* Issues when restoring a TigerGraph database
* Low performance 

We recommend using different mount points for the App, Data, Log and Temp directories to avoid one single point of failure.
This can be defined while installing TigerGraph (either via interactive mode or non-interactive mode).
Here is an example of how to specify different mount points in the `install_config.json` file.

```
"RootDir": {
"AppRoot": "/mnt1/app",
"DataRoot": "/mnt2/data",
"LogRoot": "/mnt3/log"
"TempRoot": "/mnt4/tmp"
},
```

> TIP: To economize, you can opt to use an optical disk (HDD) for the logs; the remaining ones must be SSD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: To economize, you can opt to use a hard disk (HDD) for the logs; the remaining ones must be SSD.
```
